README.md, before:

# Docker Setup

## Install Docker

- Ensure Docker is installed on your system. You can download it from the Docker website.
- Docker Commands
  - Check Docker version:
    ```bash
    docker --version
    ```
  - Build Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t docker-practice .
    ```
  - Run Docker image in a container:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8080:8080 docker-practice
    ```
  - Save Docker image as a .tar file:
    ```bash
    docker save -o docker-practice.tar docker-practice
    ```
  - Load Docker image from a .tar file:
    ```bash
    docker load -i docker-practice.tar
    ```

## Create Dockerfile in the Project

- Here is an example Dockerfile for your project:

  ```bash
  FROM node:20-alpine
  WORKDIR /app

  COPY package.json .
  COPY package-lock.json .

  RUN npm install

  COPY . .

  EXPOSE 8080

  CMD ["npm", "start"]
  ```

## How to Share the Docker Image with Anyone

- Create an account on Docker Hub:
  - Go to Docker Hub and create an account.
- Create a repository on Docker Hub:

  - Create a new repository on your Docker Hub account.

- Push the image to the repository:

  - Tag the image:

    ```bash
    docker tag docker-practice your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

  - Push the image:

    ```bash
    docker push your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

  - Share the repository link:

    - Share the Docker Hub repository link with others.

  - Pull the image:

    - Pull the image using the repository link:
      ```bash
      docker pull your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
      ```

  - Run the Docker image:

    - Run the pulled image in a container:
      ```bash
      docker run -d -p <host-port>:<container-port> your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
      ```

  - For example, if your Express app runs on port 3000:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 3000:3000 your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

## Why Use docker-compose up

```bash
The docker-compose up command is used to start and run multi-container Docker applications defined in a docker-compose.yml file. Docker Compose simplifies managing and running           multiple Docker containers as a single service, making it easier to define, configure, and orchestrate complex applications.
```

## Example docker-compose.yml File

- Here is an example of a docker-compose.yml file for an Express.js application with a MongoDB database:

  ```bash
  yaml
  version: '3.8'

  services:
    app:
      build:
        context: .
        dockerfile: Dockerfile
      ports:
        - "3000:3000"
      environment:
        NODE_ENV: development
        PORT: 8080
        MONGO_URI: mongodb://db:27017/docker-practice
      depends_on:
        - db

    db:
      image: mongo:latest
      ports:
        - "27017:27017"
      volumes:
        - db-data:/data/db

  volumes:
    data:
      driver: local
  ```

## Commands to Run the Services

- Start the services:
  ```bash
  docker-compose up
  ```
- Run the containers in the background:
  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d
  ```
- Stop the running containers:

  ```bash
  docker-compose down
  ```

- Rebuild and run your Docker containers:

  ```bash
  docker-compose up --build -d
  ```

- Check container status:

  ```bash
  docker-compose ps
  ```

- View logs:
  ```bash
  docker-compose logs app
  ```

Commit message:

- line added in docker-compose file to pull the image from the docker.hub - added some info in the readme file about docker commands

README.md, after:

# Docker Setup

## Install Docker

- Ensure Docker is installed on your system. You can download it from the Docker website.
- Docker Commands

  - Check Docker version:
    ```bash
    docker --version
    ```
  - Build Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t docker-practice .
    ```
  - Build Docker image using docker-compose directly:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --build
    ```
  - In Short running docker
    ```bash
    build -t docker-practice .
    ```
    is not necessary when you have the build context in docker-compose.yml and use docker-compose up --build. This keeps the workflow streamlined since Docker Compose takes care of both building and running the containers in one command.
  - Run Docker image in a container:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8080:8080 docker-practice
    ```
  - Save Docker image as a .tar file:
    ```bash
    docker save -o docker-practice.tar docker-practice
    ```
  - Load Docker image from a .tar file:
    ```bash
    docker load -i docker-practice.tar
    ```

## Create Dockerfile in the Project

- Here is an example Dockerfile for your project:

  ```bash
  FROM node:20-alpine
  WORKDIR /app

  COPY package.json .
  COPY package-lock.json .

  RUN npm install

  COPY . .

  EXPOSE 8080

  CMD ["npm", "start"]
  ```

## How to Share the Docker Image with Anyone

- Create an account on Docker Hub:
  - Go to Docker Hub and create an account.
- Create a repository on Docker Hub:

  - Create a new repository on your Docker Hub account.

- Push the image to the repository:

  - Tag the image:

    ```bash
    docker tag docker-practice your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

  - Push the image:

    ```bash
    docker push your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

  - Share the repository link:

    - Share the Docker Hub repository link with others.

  - Pull the image:

    - Pull the image using the repository link:
      ```bash
      docker pull your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
      ```

  - Run the Docker image:

    - Run the pulled image in a container:
      ```bash
      docker run -d -p <host-port>:<container-port> your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
      ```

  - For example, if your Express app runs on port 3000:
    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 3000:3000 your-dockerhub-username/testing:latest
    ```

## Why Use docker-compose up

```bash
The docker-compose up command is used to start and run multi-container Docker applications defined in a docker-compose.yml file. Docker Compose simplifies managing and running           multiple Docker containers as a single service, making it easier to define, configure, and orchestrate complex applications.
```

## Example docker-compose.yml File

- Here is an example of a docker-compose.yml file for an Express.js application with a MongoDB database:

  ```bash
  yaml
  version: '3.8'

  services:
    app:
      build:
        context: .
        dockerfile: Dockerfile
      ports:
        - "3000:3000"
      environment:
        NODE_ENV: development
        PORT: 8080
        MONGO_URI: mongodb://db:27017/docker-practice
      depends_on:
        - db

    db:
      image: mongo:latest
      ports:
        - "27017:27017"
      volumes:
        - db-data:/data/db

  volumes:
    data:
      driver: local
  ```

## Commands to Run the Services

- Start the services:
  ```bash
  docker-compose up
  ```
- Run the containers in the background:
  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d
  ```
- Stop the running containers:

  ```bash
  docker-compose down
  ```

- Rebuild and run your Docker containers:

  ```bash
  docker-compose up --build -d
  ```

- Check container status:

  ```bash
  docker-compose ps
  ```

- View logs:
  ```bash
  docker-compose logs app
  ```
